crime-record-system-with-finger-print-matching-software
=======================================================

The proposed system applies to all Police stations across the country and specifically looks into the subject of Crime Records Management. It is well understood that Crime Prevention, Detection and Conviction of criminals depend on a highly responsive backbone of Information Management. The efficiency of the police function and the effectiveness with which it tackles crime depend on what quality of information it can derive from its existing records and how fast it can have access to it also providing Information about Crime Location and Sensitive area based on GIS system, it also useful in Passport issuing system . It is proposed to centralize Information Management in Crime for the purposes of fast and efficient sharing of critical information across all Police Stations across the territory. Initially, the system will be implemented across Cities and Towns and later on, be interlinked so that a Police detective can access information across all records in the state thus helping speedy and successful completion to cases. The System would also be used to generate information for pro-active and preventive measures for fighting crime. The project has been planned to be having the view of distributed architecture, with centralized storage of the database. The application for the storage of the data has been planned. Using the constructs of SQL server and all the user interfaces have been designed using the DOT Net technologies. The standards of security and data protective mechanism have been given a big choice for proper usage. The application takes care of different modules and their associated reports, which are produced as per the applicable strategies and standards that are put forwarded by the administrative staff.